---
layout: post
excerpt: "My notes about DevNet Create"
title: DevNet Create 2019
categories: [DevNet]
author: Matyas
published: false
---

DevNet: Create the Future

It is all about the community

DevNet has been about the community since the very beginning. I mean this was never something revolutionary from Cisco. There has been many people including me involved in nowadays so called DevOps years and years ago and what we all always loved about this area was the community. Look at SourceForge and you can see that this community existed many years ago. What Cisco has been doing great for the last few years was to building this kind of community between people mainly from enterprise world which were never involved in any of these communities or didn't see the point of being involved. In one of my presentations I have mentioned that we are living in this exciting times where we see this fusion of different skills and profiles between network engineers and developers and we have this great opportunity to learn from each other. Network was always quite uninteresting field for any developers due to lack of any APIs or programability but that has started to change in last few weeks with products like Kubernetes or SDN (ACI or SDA).

What I think DevNet Create is trying to fix is to invite people from the other side of the spectrum - developers and I think it has been great success. In my experience this was the first time where I was in the conference organised by network vendor where developers outnumbered network engineers and it was absolute fantastic! After my presentation I got so many questions from completely different perspectives on which ones I didn't even know the answer!

Open Source
If you look at the application development and automation from compute perspective on of the main drivers was opensource community. Tools like git, ansible or methologies like CI/CD has been developed mainly by the opensource community and I'm glad Cisco understand this and starting to acknowledge that much more than in the past. It has been great to see that most of the presentations I have seen has been related to opensource products or tools and Cisco.

Community, open source, most of presentations has been about Cisco and some of the open source tools, Susee and Mandy asking at the end of conference whether next time should be even less about Cisco and maybe more about the open source or other vendors.

Learn it. Test it. Code it.
What was the greatest thing about this event was the openness and willingness to share between people. Either it was in the morning over the coffee, during the day between presentations or in the evening cover the drink it was always interesting discussions. I don't know if it was the weather or it was something in the water but this was one of those thing which really stands out from any other conferences.

FONK: FaaS on K8S Working Examples (Pete Johnson)
Intent-based Networking with Cisco DNA Center Platform - the Network is Open for Business (Julia Guenther)
